Jumpstart week 4 (#7)
Code-4-Community/learning-resources: docs/week-3.md

> 

Reviewer: can you please add a small agenda so I can put it in our events document, day view: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CbTWfAhkmy7l-BbuaZJ1lSIsheUOcVfQRaBQPGAZRH4/edit?usp=sharing

Reviewer 2: ^^

Also, see weeks 1 and 2 for how the Topics and Basic Plan sections are done. 

Basic plan is mostly just the names of all of the headers down below.

# Jumpstart Week 3: React and Material-UI

Welcome to the 3rd week of the Jumpstart Program! This is the week we get into the good stuff...React! 
This word is probably one that you have heard whenever Web Development has been the topic of conversation 
and now you will get to learn about this awesome tool.

> ## React

Reviewer 2: Add a space between headers and the next line

```suggestion
## React

```

Our good friend John wants to make an interactive user interface for his website but does not want to go through

> the whole process of Creating an HTML layout and then applying a CSS stylesheet and finally adding in Javascript

Reviewer 3: lower case creating

functionality and liveliness. If only there was a simple library that can do all of this for us and more.......oh

> wait there is. It is called React and it is dope.

Reviewer 2: Love it 😄

 
### What is React?

> React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. 

Reviewer 2: Space

```suggestion
### What is React?

React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. 
```

> It lets you compose complex User Interfaces from small and isolated pieces of code called “components”. 

Reviewer: period inside :) "components."

Author: fixed

> It lets you compose complex User Interfaces from small and isolated pieces of code called “components”. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It lets you compose complex User Interfaces (UIs) from small and isolated pieces of code called “components”. 
```

Reviewer 2: Do you think we should have a description of what UIs are? or do you think they're sort of self explanatory?

> React basically will build you a website out of pure Javascript! It combines HTML tags in the form of JSX, 

Reviewer 2: What is JSX (unless it's explained below)?

Reviewer 4: In the JSX description make sure you include the {} syntax for putting data in html text

CSS files and good old JS logic to produce a masterpiece. 

### Why is React better than plain old HTML/CSS/JS combo?

> Well React is just a Javascript Library which requires less knowledge and understanding of other frameworks. 

Reviewer 2: Space

```suggestion
### Why is React better than plain old HTML/CSS/JS combo?

Well React is just a Javascript Library which requires less knowledge and understanding of other frameworks. 
```

> In addition, React makes it easy for developers to manipulate and work with the DOM with the help of a virtual browser. 

Reviewer: what is DOM

Reviewer 5: second this^

Reviewer 2: third this ^

also, what's a virtual browser?

Author: fixed.

The virtual browser bridges the gap between the developer and the browser (the actual one). Lastly, React uses a type
of code called **declarative code**. Declarative code describes the end result, but does not act as a step-by-step 
guide of how to do it. In practice, that means declarative code is lightweight, easier to understand and change, 

> and has fewer bugs. However, declarative code is not so good preventing errors which is why we use Typescript to help

Reviewer: is not so good at* ...

> prevent errors that may break our application.

Reviewer 5: I think the sentence might flow better if we say "However, declarative code is error prone which is why we use Typescript to help prevent these errors that may break our application."

### What a file looks like that incorporates React

> Let us call this file LuckyNum.tsx (.tsx refers to the file being a typescript file).

Reviewer 2: Space

```suggestion
### What a file looks like that incorporates React

Let us call this file LuckyNum.tsx (.tsx refers to the file being a typescript file).
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: Also add a space between code blocks and anything else (MkDocs/GitHub can be a little weird about that sometimes)

import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = () => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

>     return(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    return (
```

        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

At the top of our file we import the React library. We then start by building a functional component 
(which we will explain in just a moment) to display our lucky number to the user. Inside our component we return 
the JSX (Javascript XML) we want to be displayed inside the return statement. We then export the component for use 
in other places.

## Components

Components are the building blocks of a React application. Understanding what one is and how they are important is 
fundamental to one's comprehension of React.

### What is a Component?

> A React component is like a piece of the "React App" puzzle. For a puzzle to be complete we need at least one piece. 

Reviewer: this sentence is kinda confusing but I also don't know how to change it to fix that

Reviewer 3: I think the simile is fine, maybe just confusing wording??

Reviewer 5: The simile is good but the wording is a little confusing

Author: How should I reword?

Reviewer 4: "If we think of our React application as a puzzle, then a component is just a single piece"

> A React component is like a piece of the "React App" puzzle. For a puzzle to be complete we need at least one piece. 

Reviewer 2: Space

```suggestion
### What is a Component?

A React component is like a piece of the "React App" puzzle. For a puzzle to be complete we need at least one piece. 
```

Similarly, each React application needs at least one component. The default component is usually one by the name of 

> App.js or in our case App.tsx (we are using Typescript instead of Javascript). Let us take a look at the LuckyNum.tsx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
App.js, or in our case, App.tsx (we are using Typescript instead of Javascript). Let us take a look at the LuckyNum.tsx
```

file created above.

> ```

Reviewer 2: Space

import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = () => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

>     return(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    return (
```

        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

> Here we see the creation of a component. The component's name is LuckyNum and displays our lucky number in a `<h1>`

Reviewer 2: Space

> Here we see the creation of a component. The component's name is LuckyNum and displays our lucky number in a `<h1>`

Reviewer 2: Ooh, maybe make LuckyNum `LuckyNum`

tag. We know this is a component because it is returning JSX to be displayed to a user. Notice how our `<h1>` is

> wrapped in a `<div>`. This is because React requires us to return a contained component. This means that there most be

Reviewer: this means that there must* ...

> a type of container that has what we want to display housed inside. In most cases using a `<div>` is the best way to 

Reviewer: wut is housed

Reviewer 3: synonym for 'contained'

go. However, you can use any piece of JSX as a wrapper/container.

> So, we have covered that a component is just a piece of a React App. A cool thing we can do in react is that we can

Reviewer 5: Capital R for React

use components that we have made in other components that we make.

> ### Using Components
> Remember our LuckyNum component we made above? We are going to use this component in our Profile component below in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using Components

Remember our`LuckyNum` component we made above? We are going to use this component in our Profile component below in
```

order to display your favorite number along with your name and favorite color.

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

/* 
   Notice how there is no return statement. If we are only 
   returning JSX (no javascript inside of our component) 
   we can use () to wrap our component
*/

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> As you can see we import the component `LuckNum` from the typescript file we wrote. Once the component is imported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see we import the component `LuckyNum` from the typescript file we wrote. Once the component is imported
```

> we are able to use it in our new component. The syntax to do this is by creating a tag to indicate where we

Reviewer 2: This is done by creating a tag...

want the imported component to be placed.

> ## Props
> Looks like things are going well. We have successfully displayed John's profile picture, name, favorite color and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Props

Looks like things are going well. We have successfully displayed John's profile picture, name, favorite color and
```

> ## Props
> Looks like things are going well. We have successfully displayed John's profile picture, name, favorite color and

Reviewer 2: Oxford comma? (I don't know if we're really that set on enforcing this though so you can probably leave it. @sadafkh11 thoughts?)

```suggestion
## Props

Looks like things are going well. We have successfully displayed John's profile picture, name, favorite color, and
```

> lucky number. Now John's friend Doug wants to display his luck number on his profile. John is happy to help and

Reviewer: display his lucky* number?

> lucky number. Now John's friend Doug wants to display his luck number on his profile. John is happy to help and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lucky number. Now John's friend Doug wants to display his lucky number on his profile. John is happy to help and
```

gives him the `LuckyNum` component we made. However, Doug's lucky number is not the same as John's so Doug cannot

> use the `LuckNum` component! John has a solution: use props.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
use the `LuckyNum` component! John has a solution: use props.
```

> ### What are Props and why use them?
> Props are a nice way of making your components reusable. Instead of hard coding all of our data and information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What are Props and why use them?

Props are a nice way of making your components reusable. Instead of hard coding all of our data and information
```

into our components, we can pass in props to give some malleability to our components. A great way to understand
props is to compare them to how functions work. For example, let us print a message to the console.

> 

Reviewer 6: Maybe add a short note on what console.log is/does.

Reviewer 4: Covered in JavaScript workshop, should be fine

```
function printHi() {

    console.log("hi");

}

> ```

Reviewer 2: I like how you're showing props by comparing them to functions!

We successfully printed "hi" to the console! Now what if we wanted to print "hey" to the console. We would have
to make a new function because `printHi()` only prints "hi". We would then have to make `printHey()`.

```
function printHey() {

    console.log("hey");

}
```

> We have now printed "hi" and "hey", but it is very repetitive and not efficient. If we wanted to print another

Reviewer: "hey,"*

> message we would have to make a new function OR we can just add a parameter to a function to print whatever we

Reviewer: maybe add a comma after message (first word of the line) for an easier read

want to the console and we would not need to make a new function each time. All we would need to do is pass in
our message as a parameter like so.

```
function printMessage(message) {

    console.log("Here is your note: " + message);

}
```

Now we can reuse the function whenever we want to print something to the console! 

> ### Using Props
> This same logic can be applied when we use props. Let us revisit the `LuckyNum` component again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using Props

This same logic can be applied when we use props. Let us revisit the `LuckyNum` component again.
```

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = () => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

>     return(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    return (
```

        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

Right now this component only displays John's lucky number. In order to make this component more reusable so that
Doug can use it, we must add props. We add props as a parameter of the function component.

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = (props) => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

>     return(

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    return (
```

        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

> Now that we have access to `props` we can simply display the luckyNum field of the prop object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have access to `props` we can simply display the `luckyNum` field of the prop object.
```

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = (props) => (

    <div>
        <h1>My Lucky Number is {props.luckyNumber}</h1>
    </div>

)

export default LuckyNum;
```

> Our component is now reuseable!! We now can use it on Doug's profile like so.

Reviewer 2: space

> Our component is now reuseable!! We now can use it on Doug's profile like so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our component is now reusable!! We now can use it on Doug's profile like so.
```

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is Doug! My favorite color is purple.</h1>
        <LuckyNum luckyNum={1111}/>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

`props` is an object that React makes for each component. When you pass parameters into component declaration 

> like we did with `LuckNum` React adds the parameter as a field of the object `props`. In order to get the field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
like we did with `LuckyNum` React adds the parameter as a field of the object `props`. In order to get the field
```

of the object we simply access the object's field like we would any other object. 

> > We can make the `Profile` component more reusable with props. Try now to add props to make `Profile` more

Reviewer 2: Try to add props to make `Profile` more generic yourself right now. 

or something like that

>generic (possible answer below). 

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = (props) => (

    <div>
        <img src=`${props.profileURL}`/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is {props.name}! My favorite color is {props.favoriteColor}.</h1>
        <LuckyNum luckyNum={props.luckyNum}/>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> ## State Management
> Alright. So John is now super happy with his profile and wants to see if other people like his profile as much

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## State Management

Alright. So John is now super happy with his profile and wants to see if other people like his profile as much
```

as he does. To do this John adds a like button on his profile. 

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: </button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

John is now perplexed. How can I keep track of the number of likes and how can I keep the number consistent

> through each render? Welcome to state management John.

Reviewer 2: lmao

### What is managing state?

> You can think of state as the data that persist through each clock render of your application. Under the hood,

Reviewer 3: clock render?

> ### What is managing state?
> You can think of state as the data that persist through each clock render of your application. Under the hood,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What is managing state?

You can think of state as the data that persists through each clock render of your application. Under the hood,
```

> your react application renders the screen on clock ticks. In order to make your non-constant data persist we

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your react application renders the screen on clock ticks. In order to make your non-constant data persist, we
```

> have to manage the state of our application. We manage the state in our componetns using the react hook 

Reviewer: ooops components*

`useState`. There are other ways of managing state in react, but this is a simple and easy way.

> ### useState Hook
> `useState` allows us to add and keep track of data in the state. In order to use this hook we must import 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### useState Hook

`useState` allows us to add and keep track of data in the state. In order to use this hook we must import 
```

> it from react. We use {} when importing useState because it is not a default export but a named one. We will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it from React. We use {} when importing `useState` because it is a named export. This is different from a default export, which is how we were getting exports earlier. We will
```

or something?

discuss default and named exports in Week 6.

> ```import { useState } from 'react';```

Reviewer 2: Code blocks get messed up on GitHub (and I think MkDocs) when you don't have the three backticks on their own lines

Let us add that import into John's profile component.

> 

Reviewer: seems like code blocks got messed up starting here

```
import React, { useState} from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: </button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> Now in order to use `useState` we make a `const` array with the a variable and a setter. We then set this equal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now in order to use `useState` we make a `const` array with a variable and a setter. We then set this equal
```

> to a call to useState and pass in the type of data we want to keep track of. For example if we want to keep 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to a call to `useState` and pass in the type of data we want to keep track of. For example, if we want to keep 
```

> track of someones message we would write this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
track of someone's message, we would write this:
```

> ```const [message, setMessage] = useState("Hello World")```

Reviewer 2: backticks on their own lines.

We have initialized `message` to be "Hello World". If we want to change our message we would simply use 
`setMessage`.

> ```setMessage("This is our new message")```

Reviewer 2: backticks on their own lines

Now John can simply implement `useState` into his profile.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

>     //initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
```

    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: {profileLikes}</button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

Now all we have to do is create an `onClick` event to know when to increment the likes.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

>     //initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
```

    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

>     //handles incrementing the likes of John's profile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile
```

    function handleLikes {
        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button onClick="handleLikes()">Likes: {profileLikes}</button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

## Typing with Typescript

> As you may have noticed, react is normally implement with Javascript. The only downside to using Javascript is 

Reviewer: normally implemented*

> ## Typing with Typescript
> As you may have noticed, react is normally implement with Javascript. The only downside to using Javascript is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Typing with Typescript

As you may have noticed, React is normally implement with Javascript. The only downside to using Javascript is 
```

that we do not get type enforcement.

> ### Why use Typescript in the first place?
> When developing an application with a lot of contributors it is important to have some sort of structure to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Why use Typescript in the first place?

When developing an application with a lot of contributors, it is important to have some sort of structure to 
```

> your code. Typing allows us to not create errors and mess up a project with other contributors on it. Typescript

Reviewer 3: Typing supposed to be TypeScript?

Author: Typing is the act of giving our code types. I will include that.

> your code. Typing allows us to not create errors and mess up a project with other contributors on it. Typescript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your code. Typing allows us to avoid errors and prevent messing up a project when there are other contributors on it. Typescript
```

gives us the functionality of typing our components and data! 

> ### How to type in React
> It is as easy as it seems. For example lets type the `useState` that John used for likes on his profile and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How to type in React

It is as easy as it seems. For example, lets type the `useState` that John used for likes on his profile and the
```

`useState` for our message example:

```
const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState<Number>(0);
const [message, setMessage] = useState<String>("Hello World")
```

When typing components, we have to make sure to type the props that we are taking in (if applicable). The way

> we do this is with an interface with the name and the type of the prop we are expecting. For example lets 

Reviewer: let's* :)

> we do this is with an interface with the name and the type of the prop we are expecting. For example lets 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we do this is with an interface with the name and the type of the prop we are expecting. For example, let's 
```

take the `LuckyNum` component as an example.

> 

Reviewer: code blocks still messed up

```
import React from 'react'; 

/*
    We specify luckyNumber as readonly because we do not need to modify
    it anywhere in our component. All we need is to be able to read the value.
*/

interface LuckyNumProps {
    readonly luckyNumber: number;
}

/*
    React.FC = react functional component
*/

const LuckyNum: React.FC<LuckyNumProps> = (props) => (

    <div>
        <h1>My Lucky Number is {props.luckyNumber}</h1>
    </div>

)

export default LuckyNum;
```

> ## Material UI: a lifesaver
> We all hate having to style our components for hours on end to make them look beautiful and actually work

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Material UI: a lifesaver

We all hate having to style our components for hours on end to make them look beautiful and actually work
```

properly. Do not worry because Material UI is here to save the day!

> ### What is Material UI?
> Material UI is a popular framework in react. It is a library filled with pre-styled components that are super

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What is Material UI?

Material UI is a popular framework in React. It is a library filled with pre-styled components that are super
```

helpful. There are many different components that basically replace the need for any pure html components in
your project. Each of the pre-made components will save you a ton of time on styling and formatting.

> ### How can I use it?
> All you have to do is import any component you want from the list found 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How can I use it?

All you have to do is import any component you want from the list found 
```

[here](https://material-ui.com/components/box/). For example let us replace the html `<button>` for John's 
likes with a Material UI Button component.

> 

Reviewer: code block fix :)

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';
import { Button } from '@material-ui/core'

const Profile = () => (

>     //initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
```

    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

>     //handles incrementing the likes of John's profile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile
```

    function handleLikes {
        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <Button onClick={()=>handleLikes}>Likes: {profileLikes}</Button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

### Styling Material UI Components

> If you wanted to style the components in Material UI a little more to taylor your specific needs you can do that!

Reviewer 3: tailor*

> ### Styling Material UI Components
> If you wanted to style the components in Material UI a little more to taylor your specific needs you can do that!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Styling Material UI Components

If you wanted to style the components in Material UI a little more to tailor them to your specific needs, you can do that!
```

For example let us make the newly imported Button component on John's profile to be black.

We first have to import `makeStyles` from `@material-ui/core/styles`. We then make an object for each class we 

> want to apply to our components. We make a lambda function called `useStyles` that is equal to `makeStyles`

Reviewer: what is a lambda function?

Author: should have been covered in Week 2

Author: However, a lambda function is a variable in JS that acts like an anonymous function.

Reviewer 4: We called them anonymous functions in week 2, use the same terminology here

and pass in our objects to the `makeStyles` function as one big object. We then call `useStyles` in our 
component to apply in `className`.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';
import { Button } from '@material-ui/core'

const useStyles = makeStyles({
    
    makeButtonBlack: {
        color: 'black',
        font: '30px'
    }
})

const Profile = () => (

>     //allows us to use our custom styles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // allows us to use our custom styles
```

    const classes = useStyles();

>     //initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
```

    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

>     //handles incrementing the likes of John's profile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile
```

    function handleLikes {
        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <Button 
                className={classes.makeButtonBlack} 
                onClick={()=>handleLikes}>Likes: {profileLikes}
        </Button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> ## Other Learning Sources
> Here are some sources that should help your understanding. Also you can always search on Google or Youtube

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Other Learning Sources

Here are some sources that should help your understanding. Also you can always search on Google or Youtube
```

# Jumpstart Week 3: React and Material-UI

Welcome to the 3rd week of the Jumpstart Program! This is the week we get into the good stuff...React! 
This word is probably one that you have heard whenever Web Development has been the topic of conversation 
and now you will get to learn about this awesome tool.

## Basic Plan & Topics Covered
- React
    - What is React?
    - Why is React something we use?
    - A look at a React file

> - Components

Reviewer 4: I would change this to React Components and React Props since they are part of React and the other topics are general frontend topics

    - What is component?
    - How do we use components?
- Props
    - What are props?
    - Why do we use props?
    - How do we use props?
- State Management
    - What is managing state?
    - useState Hook
- Typescript
    - Why use Typescript?
    - Typing in React
- Material UI
    - What is Material UI?
    - How to use Material UI
    - Styling in Material UI
    

## React

Our good friend John wants to make an interactive user interface for his website but does not want to go through
the whole process of creating an HTML layout and then applying a CSS stylesheet and finally adding in Javascript
functionality and liveliness. If only there was a simple library that can do all of this for us and more.......oh
wait there is. It is called React and it is dope.
 
### What is React?

React is a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. 
It lets you compose complex User Interfaces from small and isolated pieces of code called “components.” 

> React basically will build you a website out of pure Javascript! It combines HTML tags in the form of JSX, 

Reviewer 4: Get rid of "basically"

CSS files and good old JS logic to produce a masterpiece. 

### Why is React better than plain old HTML/CSS/JS combo?

> Well React is just a Javascript Library which requires less knowledge and understanding of other frameworks. 

Reviewer 4: What do you mean by "less knowledge and understanding of other frameworks"? React is a Javascript Framework, it simplifies web development

In addition, React makes it easy for developers to manipulate and work with the DOM. The DOM stands for the Document
Object Model and is what connects the browser and the HTML code. Lastly, React uses a type
of code called **declarative code**. Declarative code describes the end result, but does not act as a step-by-step 
guide of how to do it. In practice, that means declarative code is lightweight, easier to understand and change, 

> and has fewer bugs. However, declarative code is error prone which is why we use Typescript 

Reviewer 4: I would move this last sentence into its own paragraph

to help prevent these errors that may break our application.

### What a file looks like that incorporates React

Let us call this file LuckyNum.tsx (.tsx refers to the file being a typescript file).

> ```

Reviewer 4: Are your code blocks being highlighted correctly? Usually you would specify the file extension after the opening backticks

Reviewer 4: ```js
console.log("An example");
```

import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = () => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

    return (
        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

> At the top of our file we import the React library. We then start by building a functional component 

Reviewer 4: italicize keywords like "functional component" the first time they come up

(which we will explain in just a moment) to display our lucky number to the user. Inside our component we return 
the JSX (Javascript XML) we want to be displayed inside the return statement. We then export the component for use 
in other places.

## Components

> Components are the building blocks of a React application. Understanding what one is and how they are important is 

Reviewer 4: "Understanding what one is and how they are important is fundamental to one's comprehension of React"
This sentence isn't really saying anything and is confusingly worded, maybe change to something like:
"To master react, it's important to understand what a component is and how to create them"

fundamental to one's comprehension of React.

### What is a Component?

A React component is like a piece of the "React App" puzzle. For a puzzle to be complete we need at least one piece. 

> Similarly, each React application needs at least one component. The default component is usually one by the name of 

Reviewer 4: "The default component will typically be called ...."

App.js, or in our case, App.tsx (we are using Typescript instead of Javascript). Let us take a look at the LuckyNum.tsx
file created above.
```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = () => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

    return (
        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```
Here we see the creation of a component. The component's name is LuckyNum and displays our lucky number in a `<h1>`
tag. We know this is a component because it is returning JSX to be displayed to a user. Notice how our `<h1>` is

> wrapped in a `<div>`. This is because React requires us to return a contained component. This means that there must be

Reviewer 4: Avoid confusing pronouns, instead of saying "This means that ..." say "A contained component is...."

> a type of container that has what we want to display housed inside. In most cases using a `<div>` is the best way to 

Reviewer 4: "This means that there must be a type of container that has what we want to display housed inside"
I have no idea what you're trying to convey here. You also don't explain what a "container" is so this is pretty unhelpful. Try to use simpler terms: Just say that JSX can only have one outer element and all other elements must be between the tags of that outer element.

> go. However, you can use any piece of JSX as a wrapper/container.

Reviewer 4: Adding a section to define JSX would help but I feel like you're using JSX when "HTML element" or some other term would be more valid. Try using the same syntax as from the HTML/CSS lesson since it's what they're used to

So, we have covered that a component is just a piece of a React App. A cool thing we can do in React is that we can

> use components that we have made in other components that we make.

Reviewer 4: "A cool thing we can do in React is that we can use components that we have made in other components that we make."
Change to
"As we'll see later, React lets us compose components, meaning we can use one component inside of another one!"

### Using Components

Remember our`LuckyNum` component we made above? We are going to use this component in our Profile component below in

> order to display your favorite number along with your name and favorite color.

Reviewer 4: Don't switch between "our" and "your". I think for consistency both of the "your"s here should be our

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

/* 
   Notice how there is no return statement. If we are only 
   returning JSX (no javascript inside of our component) 
   we can use () to wrap our component
*/

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

As you can see we import the component `LuckyNum` from the typescript file we wrote. Once the component is imported
we are able to use it in our new component. The syntax to do this is by creating a tag to indicate where we
want the imported component to be placed.

## Props

Looks like things are going well. We have successfully displayed John's profile picture, name, favorite color and
lucky number. Now John's friend Doug wants to display his lucky number on his profile. John is happy to help and

> gives him the `LuckyNum` component we made. However, Doug's lucky number is not the same as John's so Doug cannot

Reviewer 4: I would change this to: "However, while John's favorite number is 7, Doug's favorite number is 10, so he can't use the `LuckyNum` component!"

use the `LuckyNum` component! John has a solution: use props.

### What are Props and why use them?

Props are a nice way of making your components reusable. Instead of hard coding all of our data and information

> into our components, we can pass in props to give some malleability to our components. A great way to understand

Reviewer 4: Customizability instead of malleability?

props is to compare them to how functions work. For example, let us print a message to the console.

```
function printHi() {

    console.log("hi");

}
```

We successfully printed "hi" to the console! Now what if we wanted to print "hey" to the console. We would have
to make a new function because `printHi()` only prints "hi". We would then have to make `printHey()`.

```
function printHey() {

    console.log("hey");

}
```

We have now printed "hi" and "hey," but it is very repetitive and not efficient. If we wanted to print another

> message, we would have to make a new function OR we can just add a parameter to a function to print whatever we

Reviewer 4: Instead of "parameter" use "argument" to stay consistent with last week

> want to the console and we would not need to make a new function each time. All we would need to do is pass in

Reviewer 4: I would remove this last sentence since you already said pretty much the same thing

our message as a parameter like so.

```
function printMessage(message) {

    console.log("Here is your note: " + message);

}
```

Now we can reuse the function whenever we want to print something to the console! 

### Using Props

This same logic can be applied when we use props. Let us revisit the `LuckyNum` component again.

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = () => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

    return (
        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

Right now this component only displays John's lucky number. In order to make this component more reusable so that

> Doug can use it, we must add props. We add props as a parameter of the function component.

Reviewer 4: We add props as an argument to the function component

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = (props) => {

    let myLuckyNumber = 7;

    return (
        <div>
            <h1>My Lucky Number is {myLuckyNumber}</h1>
        </div>
    );
}

export default LuckyNum;
```

> Now that we have access to `props` we can simply display the `luckyNum` field of the prop object.

Reviewer 4: Add a sentence that explains 'props' is an object that contains all props.
"`props` is an object that contains every prop passed to the component. We can access a specific prop's value by it's argument name. In our case, we can access the `luckyNum` field of the prop object and display that."

```
import React from 'react'; 

const LuckyNum = (props) => (

    <div>
        <h1>My Lucky Number is {props.luckyNumber}</h1>
    </div>

)

export default LuckyNum;
```

> Our component is now reusable!! We now can use it on Doug's profile like so.

Reviewer 4: Sentences that end with "like so" should use a colon ":" instead of a period if they're leading into code

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is Doug! My favorite color is purple.</h1>
        <LuckyNum luckyNum={1111}/>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

`props` is an object that React makes for each component. When you pass parameters into component declaration 
like we did with `LuckyNum` React adds the parameter as a field of the object `props`. In order to get the field
of the object we simply access the object's field like we would any other object. 

> We can make the `Profile` component more reusable with props. Try now to add props to make `Profile` more
>generic (possible answer below). 

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = (props) => (

    <div>
        <img src=`${props.profileURL}`/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is {props.name}! My favorite color is {props.favoriteColor}.</h1>
        <LuckyNum luckyNum={props.luckyNum}/>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

## State Management

Alright. So John is now super happy with his profile and wants to see if other people like his profile as much

> as he does. To do this John adds a like button on his profile. 

Reviewer 4: comma after "this"

```
import React from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: </button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

John is now perplexed. How can I keep track of the number of likes and how can I keep the number consistent
through each render? Welcome to state management John.

### What is managing state?

> You can think of state as the data that persists through each clock render of your application. Under the hood,

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure these two sentences are correct. React will only re-render when data changes. I think it would be more accurate to say the state is all the data that can change while a user is on a webpage.

your react application renders the screen on clock ticks. In order to make your non-constant data persist, we

> have to manage the state of our application. We manage the state in our components using the react hook 

Reviewer 4: "We'll be managing state in our components using a *react hook*: `useState`."

`useState`. There are other ways of managing state in react, but this is a simple and easy way.

### useState Hook

> `useState` allows us to add and keep track of data in the state. In order to use this hook we must import 

Reviewer 4: Add a paragraph break after the first sentence since you're talking about different things

it from React. We use {} when importing `useState` because it is a named export. This is different from a default export, which is how we were getting exports earlier. We will
discuss default and named exports in Week 6.

```
import { useState } from 'react';
```

Let us add that import into John's profile component.

```
import React, { useState} from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: </button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> Now in order to use `useState` we make a `const` array with a variable and a setter. We then set this equal

Reviewer 7: I'm not sure how clear it is that the setter is a function here. Maybe even word this a little more noobish? 

... "a variable representing the current state, and a setter function which allows us to update the state."

This could also be approached by saying that useState returns the tuple of variable and setter. Because we aren't making it, only storing it.

> Now in order to use `useState` we make a `const` array with a variable and a setter. We then set this equal

Reviewer 4: comma after "Now" and comma after `useState`

to a call to `useState` and pass in the type of data we want to keep track of. For example, if we want to keep 
track of someone's message, we would write this:

```const [message, setMessage] = useState("Hello World")```

> We have initialized `message` to be "Hello World". If we want to change our message we would simply use 

Reviewer 4: "we would simply call the `setMessage` function"

`setMessage`.

```setMessage("This is our new message")```

Now John can simply implement `useState` into his profile.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <button>Likes: {profileLikes}</button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

Now all we have to do is create an `onClick` event to know when to increment the likes.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';

const Profile = () => (

    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile

>     function handleLikes {

Reviewer 4: This should have a '()' after the function name

        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />

>         <button onClick="handleLikes()">Likes: {profileLikes}</button>

Reviewer 4: Pretty sure this shouldn't have a '()' right?

    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> ## Typing with Typescript

Reviewer 4: Add a blank line after headers

> As you may have noticed, react is normally implemented with Javascript. The only downside to using Javascript is 

Reviewer 4: "One of the downsides of using JavaScript is ..."

that we do not get type enforcement.

### Why use Typescript in the first place?

When developing an application with a lot of contributors, it is important to have some sort of structure to 

> your code. Typing (the act of giving our code types) allows us to not create errors and mess up a project 

Reviewer 4: "our data types" ?

> your code. Typing (the act of giving our code types) allows us to not create errors and mess up a project 

Reviewer 4: *helps us no introduce errors ...

with other contributors on it. Typescript gives us the functionality of typing our components and data! 

### How to type in React

> It is as easy as it seems. For example, lets type the `useState` that John used for likes on his profile and the

Reviewer 4: *lets add a type to the ....

`useState` for our message example:

```
const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState<Number>(0);
const [message, setMessage] = useState<String>("Hello World")
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Add a paragraph here (Or even better in its own section above this) that gives a description of the syntax for the types. Right now you're just showing examples for the function and not explaining how it could look for variables or other things we might add a type to

> When typing components, we have to make sure to type the props that we are taking in (if applicable). The way

Reviewer 4: I think using typing/type as a verb is confusing. I would stick with "When adding types to" or "make sure to specify the type of the props"

helpful. There are many different components that basically replace the need for any pure html components in
your project. Each of the pre-made components will save you a ton of time on styling and formatting.

### How can I use it?

All you have to do is import any component you want from the list found 
[here](https://material-ui.com/components/box/). For example let us replace the html `<button>` for John's 
likes with a Material UI Button component.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';
import { Button } from '@material-ui/core'

const Profile = () => (

    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile
    function handleLikes {
        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <Button onClick={()=>handleLikes}>Likes: {profileLikes}</Button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> ### Styling Material UI Components

Reviewer 4: Add blank line

want to apply to our components. We make a lambda function called `useStyles` that is equal to `makeStyles`
and pass in our objects to the `makeStyles` function as one big object. We then call `useStyles` in our 
component to apply in `className`.

```
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import LuckyNum from './LuckyNum';
import { Button } from '@material-ui/core'

const useStyles = makeStyles({
    
    makeButtonBlack: {
        color: 'black',
        font: '30px'
    }
})

const Profile = () => (

    // allows us to use our custom styles
    const classes = useStyles();

    // initialize the state to 0 because we start with 0 likes
    const [profileLikes, setProfileLikes] = useState(0);

    // handles incrementing the likes of John's profile
    function handleLikes {
        setProfileLikes(profileLikes + 1);
    }    

    <div>
        <img src="profileImage.jpg"/>
        <h1>Hi, my name is John! My favorite color is blue.</h1>
        <LuckyNum />
        <Button 
                className={classes.makeButtonBlack} 
                onClick={()=>handleLikes}>Likes: {profileLikes}
        </Button>
    </div>
);

export default Profile;
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Add a conclusion to your story! What happened with John and Doug?? Did they complete their website???????
